\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename stk_models.info
@settitle STK model structures (design notes)
@c %**end of header

@c @titlepage
@c @title STK model structures (design notes)
@c @author Julien Bect
@c @page
@c @end titlepage

@macro STK
@acronym {STK}
@end macro

@unnumbered @STK@ model structures (design notes)

@section Introduction

@subsection What is this document ?

This document describes @STK@ model structures. It is currently in a very
rough form and should be considered as a set of notes for @STK@
developers. Long term goal: relevant information about @STK@ models
should be included in the @STK@ user manual (which does not exist yet).

@subsection Structures vs objects

Models are currently described by structures (scalar struct
arrays). Long term goal: structure will be completely replaced by
objects, but support for old-style model structures will remain
available for some time, for backward compatiblity.


@section Fields

@subsection Mandatory fields

@itemize @bullet

@item @code{covariance_type}

@item @code{param}

@item @code{order}

@item @code{lognoisevariance}: log of the variance of the observation noise.
@itemize @bullet

@item The default value for models created using the @code{stk_model}
function is @code{-inf}, corresponds to noiseless observations.

@item @code{nan} indicates that this parameter must be
estimated.

@item Heteroscedastic noise: some functions (@code{stk_noisecov},
@code{stk_make_matcov} and partially @code{stk_param_relik}) support
vector values for this field, corresponding to the case of a
heteroscedastic noise.

@end itemize

@end itemize


@subsection Optional fields

@itemize @bullet

@item @code{param_prior}

@item @code{noise_prior}

@item @code{lm}

@end itemize


@section Notes / ideas / todos

@subsection Heteroscedastic models

Support for heteroscedasticity in STK is, at the present time, rather
limited (and somewhat shaky). Vector values for @code{lognoisevariance}
should only be accepted for @code{stk_discrete_cov} models. For other
types of models, defined on infinite (continuous) factor spaces,
@code{lognoisevariance} could be a handle to a function that compute the
log of the noise variance at any given point.


@subsection Non-scalar struct array ?

Currently, only @emph{scalar} struct arrays are supported as model
structures. Actually, the size of a @code{model} argument is not
explicitely checked, which means that most @STK@ functions will crash when
provided with a non-scalar struct array.

Idea: non-scalar model structures might be an appropriate formalism for
@emph{vector-valued} models (not currently supported by @STK).


@subsection @code{nan} value for the @code{lognoisevariance} field

Starting with STK 2.3.0, the @code{lognoisevariance} field is considered
mandatory: a @code{nan} value indicates that the variance of the noise
must be estimated, and @code{-inf} indicates that the observations are
assumed noiseless. For backward compatibility, @code{model} structures
with a missing or empty @code{lognoisevariance} field are considered as
noiseless models.

TODO (before 2.3.0 release): Handle the @code{nan} case properly
throughout the entire toolbox.


@c @node Index
@c @unnumbered Index

@c @printindex cp

@bye
